Andrew Leschinsky
Toronto, Ontario * 647-885-4737 * andrew@leschinsky.com


HIGHLIGHTS

* 20+ years of professional Software Development
* Expert knowledge of Fullstack JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, PHP
* Extensive experience in Database Design and optimization, including PostgreSQL, MySQL and MongoDB
* Current experience in Distributed Cloud Computing
* Proficient in Test Driven Development, including unit tests and functional tests
* Recent experience setting up complete DevOps infrastructure


EXPERIENCE

[Mar 2015 – Jul 2017] Lead Architect in Onist, Toronto

https://onist.com/

Technology stack: JavaScript, Meteor, Node.js, MongoDB, React Native, Jenkins, Selenium, Redis, AWS.

As a team lead of up to 10 developers, built a large distributed system with great emphasis on privacy and security. Financial data is de-personalized, partially encrypted and is stored in disconnected databases in 3 separate clusters talking to each other via an encrypted message queue. My time was mostly spent coding: mostly server-side, some client-side, and some DevOps. All of the code was reviewed by me before getting merged, and I frequently paired with other developers to solve any specific problems.

[Apr 2014 – Mar 2015] Senior Systems Engineer in Slyce, Toronto

http://slyce.it/

Technology stack: PHP, Phalcon, JavaScript, MySQL, Memcache, ElasticSearch, Python, C++, Go, Vagrant, Jenkins, AWS.

Created a PHP framework to unify multiple legacy code repositories into a loosely coupled set of coherent projects. Introduced automatic deployment and separation between staging and production environments. Built a single sign-on server with a unified user management tool that has been used throughout the company. Set up a Vargant based virtual machine for all developers to work in the same environment locally.

Built a powerful distributed computational system to run jobs in parallel, with blocking steps that have to run in sequence and non-blocking tasks that get scaled out and executed in parallel on hundreds of servers – this system became the heart of computer vision platform, which was the core of Slyce business strategy. The system includes auto-deployment capabilities with the servers updating themselves with the latest code, building C++ libraries and injecting them into the latest Python code pulled from Git repositories.

[Dec 2012 – Apr 2014] Vice President of Technology in MoPals.com, Toronto

http://mopals.com/

Technology stack: PHP, Symfony2, JavaScript, AngularJS, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Memcache, Vagrant, Jenkins, AWS.

Leading development of a team of up to 10 developers, built a scalable social network for a marketing geo-location based platform. Created a framework that compiled some of the PHP code to make it available in JavaScript on the client side. Built extensive documentation for all REST API endpoints. Set up the complete DevOps infrastructure, including continuous integration server with auto-deployment capabilities and disaster recovery protocol.

[May 2010 – Dec 2012] Co-Founder and CTO in Sharingforce Inc., Toronto

Technology stack: PHP, Zend Framework, JavaScript, MySQL, Memcache, Jenkins, AWS.

Built scalable system on Amazon Web Services, using PHP with Zend Framework, PostgreSQL, Memcache, APC, Gearman, jQuery. Led the development with a distributed team of up to 6 programmers. Built integration with Google, Facebook, Twitter, Yahoo and also plugin for WordPress, extension for Magento and an app for AppDirect. Implemented a cross-domain widget service, with a url shortener, multiple billing plans, geo-targeting, affiliate network, comprehensive reports with actualized views and many other features.


[2010] Web Developer in Dealfind Inc., Toronto

Technology stack: PHP, JavaScript, Memcache, MySQL.

Built the first version of Dealfind.com as a solo contract developer - in time and on budget, while contributing valuable ideas to the board. Dealfind was a multi-million business, and the most popular daily deal site in Canada.

[2009 – 2010] Web Developer in Leadz-B Inc., Toronto

http://www.leadz-b.com/

Technology stack: PHP, JavaScript, Memcache, MySQL.

Built a complex B2B system with 7 different user types and a complicated workflow, with massive data volumes and comprehensive reports.

[2009 - 2010] Web Developer in EduLocator, Toronto

Technology stack: PHP, JavaScript, Memcache, MySQL.

Built a geo-based search engine for colledge programs and other educational resources. A big part of the system was flexible integration layer between EduLocator and the clients (universities), and a flexible billing system.

[2004 - 2009] Lead Developer and project manager in ICM Consulting, Toronto

http://icmconsulting.com/

Technology stack: PHP, JavaScript, Memcache, MySQL.

Built 100+ small web sites, both as a solo developer and in the project manager role.


EDUCATION

Masters (5 years) in Computer Science from Donetsk State Technical University – graduated in 1998.
